Freshness pass on generics (#40008)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/fundamentals/types/generics.md

---
# Generic classes and methods

Generics introduces the concept of type parameters to .NET. Generics make it possible to design classes and methods that defer the specification of one or more type parameters until you use the class or method in your code. For example, by using a generic type parameter `T`, you can write a single class that other client code can use without incurring the cost or risk of runtime casts or boxing operations, as shown here:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/generics/Program.cs" ID="Snippet1":::

> Generic classes and methods combine reusability, type safety, and efficiency in a way that their nongeneric counterparts can't. Generic type parameters  are replaced with the type arguments during compilation. In the preceding example, the compiler replaces `T` with `int`. Generics are most frequently used with collections and the methods that operate on them. The <xref:System.Collections.Generic> namespace contains several generic-based collection classes. The nongeneric collections, such as <xref:System.Collections.ArrayList> aren't recommended and are maintained for compatibility purposes. For more information, see [Generics in .NET](../../../standard/generics/index.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generic classes and methods combine reusability, type safety, and efficiency in a way that their nongeneric counterparts can't. Generic type parameters are replaced with the type arguments during compilation. In the preceding example, the compiler replaces `T` with `int`. Generics are most frequently used with collections and the methods that operate on them. The <xref:System.Collections.Generic> namespace contains several generic-based collection classes. The nongeneric collections, such as <xref:System.Collections.ArrayList> aren't recommended and are maintained only for compatibility purposes. For more information, see [Generics in .NET](../../../standard/generics/index.md).
```

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/generics/Program.cs" ID="Snippet2":::

The following code example shows how client code uses the generic `GenericList<T>` class to create a list of integers. If you change the type argument, the following code creates lists of strings or any other custom type:

:::code language="csharp" source="snippets/generics/Program.cs" ID="Snippet3":::

> [!NOTE]
> Generic types aren't limited to classes. The preceding examples use `class` types, but you can define generic `interface` and `struct` types, including `record` types.

## Generics overview

- Use generic types to maximize code reuse, type safety, and performance.
- The most common use of generics is to create collection classes.
- The .NET class library contains several generic collection classes in the <xref:System.Collections.Generic> namespace. The generic collections should be used whenever possible instead of classes such as <xref:System.Collections.ArrayList> in the <xref:System.Collections> namespace.
- You can create your own generic interfaces, classes, methods, events, and delegates.
- Generic classes can be constrained to enable access to methods on particular data types.

> - Information on the types that are used in a generic data type can be obtained at run-time by using reflection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You can obtain information at run time on the types that are used in a generic data type by using reflection.
```
